<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="hoax.css" />
        <title>About</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="nav.xhtml" -->
        <div class="container">
            <h1>Ghost hoaxes and media in 19th century London</h1>
            <h2>About the project</h2>
        </div>
        <div class="text">
            <p>My intention with this project was to gain an understanding of Victorian media
                culture through the study of ghost hoaxes. In the collection of newspaper and
                periodical clippings, I have found examples of media attitudes that have confirmed
                and complicated my previous ideas about the attitudes and beliefs of reporters and
                journalists in nineteenth century London.</p>
            <p>This website itself aims to provide context for the collection, as the emergent media
                was a complex and ever-changing system. As Aled Jones notes in <em>Powers of the Press</em>,
                “[t]he technology of speed in composing, printing and distribution, allowed print to
                acquire a teleology, a historical trajectory that, as the… editor of the Monthly
                Repository, W.J. Fox (1786-1864) wistfully explained, began with priests, extended
                to men of letters and ‘so from on grade of society to another the influence of the
                press passed, and spread wider and wider, till the vast reading public arose, and
                the reign of patronage passed away’”(Jones 74). Cultural fixation on the
                supernatural accompanied a swift transfusion of media power into the middle and
                lower classes. Such a rush of information sharing led to disparate ideas of what
                media should look like. Class, profession, gender, location, and politics played
                into who read what when. In the spirit of taking an intersectional view of these
                hoax stories, I attempt to explore misinformation within its moment. By virtue of
                that intersectionality, some pieces of this site may seem disparate, but are
                intended to give the user an understanding <em>around</em> this cultural event, rather than
                an understanding <em>of</em> it.</p>
            <p>Many thanks to my advisor Amy Murray, Patrick Mullen, and Delanie Jenkins for their
                guidance throughout this project. Thank you to the University of Pittsburgh’s Office
                of Undergraduate Research, Dean Twyning, Dean Manfredi, and my London Field Studies
                Program peers. I am also grateful to David Birnbaum for his encouragement and for
                hosting this site. To see other Pitt based DH projects, including my own focusing on
                Victorian supernatural fiction, see his Obdurodon site.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
