<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>The Times and Spiritualism</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="hoax.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="nav.xhtml" -->
        <div class="container">
            <h1><em>Spiritualism vs. Science</em>: <em>The Times</em> as forum and folly</h1>
        </div>
        <div class="text">
            <p>In late 1872, <em>The Times</em> published a series of Letters to the Editor on the
                subject of spiritualism and science—and whether spiritualism deserved to be studied
                with any vigor. In their final editorial on the subject, they asserted that, of
                course these “popular delusions,” though “absurd,” were “too important to be
                neglected by the wiser portion of mankind” (Many sensible). In the spirit of public
                debate, however, they had printed a series which included reports of séances,
                sightings, and Spiritualist theory. I have collected the series here, along with the
                response of <em>The Spiritualist</em>, a weekly
                publication devoted to the study and promotion of Spiritualism. </p>
            <p>This back and forth strikes me as an interesting moment for Victorian media. We have
                the well-regarded Times, a daily paper, challenged by a small weekly intended for a
                niche audience. The general attitude of the press regarding their own public
                influence was complex. Aled Jones’ <em>Powers the Press: Newspapers, Power and the
                    Public in Nineteenth-Century England</em> states that “[j]ournalists were not
                isolated from trends in intellectual and popular culture,” referring to mesmerism,
                spiritualism, and paranormal psychology (Jones 79). W.T. Stead, editor of The Pall
                Mall Gazette, was a noted spiritualist, even publishing <a
                    href="http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/20420?msg=welcome_stranger#72">Real Ghost
                    Stories</a> later in his life. The press had no singular attitude toward
                spiritualism, and so had no singular influence on popular opinion of the topic.</p>
            <p>Though a singular attitude could not be imparted, papers were able to offer news,
                “narrativized and infused with an ‘attitude of suspense,’ particularly through
                reprintings (Jones 84). In the collection offered on the maps page, I include a few
                reprints from the counties as examples of these stories. After 1855’s repeal of the
                Stamp Tax, viral and suspenseful material was cheap to print and reprint, and it
                sold. Early penny dreadfuls (even before the Stamp Act) were seen by larger
                newspapers and the Anglican church as possibly harmful content for lower class
                people, but by 1859 historian Charles Macintosh observed “that, within a
                comparatively recent period, an observable shift had occurred in the perceived
                social value of popular newspapers” (Jones 109). This shift correlates with an
                observed decline in the publication of ‘immoral fiction,’ and uptick in ‘wholesome
                fiction,’ the definitions of which are based mainly on the presence of violence or
                mystery in the story (Jones 111). Ghost hoaxes, which often included attacks and
                suspenseful language, would have remained an immoral genre.</p>
            <p>The series in <em>The Times</em> represents a fixation on the immoral, misguided, and foolish
                beliefs in society, and yet papers continued to publish and people continued to
                read. The judgement imparted by <em>The Times</em> editorials along with <em>The Spiritualist</em>’s verbose defense represent a cultural push and pull fueled
                by a complex and ever-changing media. </p>
        </div>
        <div class="text">
            <p>
                <em>The Times</em> series can be viewed via <a href="http://find.galegroup.com/ttda/advancedSearch.do">"The Times Digital Archive"</a>.   
                <em>Spiritualist</em> articles are available via <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0ByKQnbAHuv4aM1F0UXl5ZHVqaEk?usp=sharing">Google Drive</a>.
            </p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
